In respond to Indigenous People Basic Law Amendment Paragraph 4 of Article 21:” The central Indigenous competent authority shall stipulate the regulations for delimiting the area of Indigenous land, communities and their adjoin-land which owned by governments, procedures to consult, to obtain consent by Indigenous Peoples or communities and to participate and compensation to their damage by restrictions in preceding three Paragraph.” administrative orders and related measures.
Indigenous People Basic Law article 2-1 section 1: ”In order to promote independent development of indigenous tribe at its will, the tribe should establish Tribal Council. The tribe which ratified by the central authority in charge of indigenous affairs shall be considered as public juristic person.”
Mr. Wei-Hsiao Lin, an inmate with mental disorder, was placed in solitary confinement for extended periods and subjected to the illegal use of constraints 49 times. He eventually died of asphyxiation after being bound and handcuffed to a corridor railing in a sitting position for five hours.
Summary judgement and ruling refers a simple judgement procedure claimed by the prosecutor or exercised by a court judge for cases in which the accused confessed to petty crimes or the court deems the evidence sufficient to rule against the accused, and the sentence is probable, detainable, or six months or less and commutable by a fine. Such procedures do not require oral arguments, which bar legal representatives from providing a defense, even if the case is a conflict of Indigenous customs and rule of law, such as firearms and hunting rights of Indigenous Peoples.
Please refer to Item 397 of the Second State Report on the ICCPR.
Article 6, Paragraph 2 of the Civil Service Examinations Act states, “In order to meet staffing needs of institutions of a special nature, as well as to provide for the employment rights of Indigenous Peoples and the disabled, Special Examinations are held at grades 1 through 5 in accordance with the above said levels and grades. Except where this Act stipulates otherwise, persons qualifying under Special Examinations are not permitted to transfer outside the originally allocated agencies for a period of six years. Regulations regarding this six year restriction vary by the nature and scope of the examining organization and are stipulated in the respective examination regulations.”
For example, after the ratification of the Patent Act in 2008, intellectual property administration was separated into an independent subject in the civil services examination to meet the growing requirement of relevant administration tasks.
In the 2012 Indigenous legislator elections, plain area legislator, Mr. Zheng-Er Lin (4-term reelectorate) was disqualified on suspicion of accepting bribes, resulting in only five legislators elected in 2012. Besides a new legislator, Ms. Ying Chen, elected in 2016, the five remaining legislators were all reelectorates.
The NPA insists that “due to the special nature of police duty, officers on duty should have an appearance that matches the perception of the general public; thus, regulations on clothing and grooming are not based on gender discrimination.” The Gender Equality Committee of the Executive Yuan and Ministry of Labor repeatedly referred the complaints to the NPA, the Ministry of the Interior, and indicated that this was a case of gender discrimination against civil servants and complaints should thus be filed according to the channels provided by the agency in question. The Executive Yuan and Ministry of Labor are competent authorities; however, both were unable to resolve the gender discrimination inflicted on the police officer, which was caused by the gender stereotypes in the NPA's grooming regulations.
Gong-Shen-Jue-Zi-Di No. 0267 of the Civil Service Protection and Training Commission.
Meeting minutes of the 19th meeting of the Project Review Team for Laws Related to CEDAW, The Gender Equality Committee of the Executive Yuan, July 17, 2014 (Link: http://www.gec.ey.gov.tw/Upload/RelFile/3211/723167/2350c087-13b2-408c-bc87-1eb44d1c58ca.pdf)
The 7th Criminal Court Conference by the Supreme Court held in 2010 reached a resolution that persons engaging in intercourse with victims younger than seven years of age shall be charged with aggravated violation of consent under Item 2, Paragraph 1, Article 222 of the Criminal Code.
Y. C. Cheng, (2010). The Application of the Criminal Code to Cases Involving Sexual Contact with a Minor Under 16 Years of Age – An Analysis of the Criminal Court Judgment in Tai-Shang-Zi-Di No. 4894 and the 7th Criminal Court Conference by the Supreme Court held in 2010. The Law Monthly, Vo. 61, Ed. 12.
In 2011, a total of 1,260 people were involved in sexual offenses where the victim was younger than 16 years of age and the offender was younger than 18 years of age (all sexual assault cases, including forced sexual intercourse) were reported to relevant authorities, with 50.79% of cases where both parties were under 16 years of age. In 2012, a total of 1,464 people were involved in sexual offenses where the victim was younger than 16 years of age and the offender was younger than 18 years of age (all sexual assault cases, including forced sexual intercourse) were reported to relevant authorities, with 51.98% of cases where both parties were under 16 years of age. For further details, please refer to the meeting minutes (part I) of the Meeting on Relevant Issues Derived from the Process of Managing Sexual Assault Cases (October 7, 2013), Department of Protective Services, Ministry of Health and Welfare (Link: http://www2.ksa.nkfust.edu.tw/guidance/pdf/gender/102110703.pdf).
M. L. Liao, S. F. Wang, J. J. Xu, J. P. Chen, (2014). A Review of Policies on Victims of Sexual Assault and the Promotion of an Extended Project – Using the Law of Consensual Underage Sex to Discuss the Effective of Preventing Sexual Assault Among Minors. The Garden of Hope Foundation, Taipei City.
Cases that Did Not Comply with the Guiding Principles of Broadcast Media Producing and Broadcasting Gender-Related Content in 2015, NCC (Link: http://www.ncc.gov.tw/Chinese/news_detail.aspx?site_content_sn=2986&is_history=0&pages=0&sn_f=34874)
A professor at the College of Medicine, Nation al Taiwan University once said during a lecture “why should girls study so hard? You’re going to be married off one day anyway.” During National Taiwan University’s orientation, a teacher who taught gender equality stated that “boys should be outgoing, healthy, and masculine, whereas girls should listen to boys. That’s how you’ll be able to get a girlfriend or boyfriend.” The Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taiwan University directly quoted the Bible in this year’s university entrance exam in an attempt to convince students that monogamy is the only natural form of marital relationships, and further describe other types of families as “exceptions that will not be further discussed.” For further details, please refer to National Taiwan University Student Association’s statement on the controversial question in the 2016 university entrance exam for the Department of Mechanical Engineering: https://goo.gl/G9mNmr
Article 6 of the Gender Equity Education Act:1~8
Seventh-Grader with Gender Neutral Appearance is Sexually Bullied, Apple Daily, October 18, 2015. (Link: http://www.appledaily.com.tw/appledaily/article/headline/20151018/36846897/); Three Junior High School Students Given Demerits for Testifying Against Sexual Bullying, Legislator Yen-Hsiu Lee Criticizes the School for Closing the Case Carelessly, ETtoday, July 22, 104. (Link: http://www.ettoday.net/news/20140722/381116.htm)
Article 63 to Article 65, Article 74, Article 75, and Article 81 of the Medical Care Act
Please refer the Ministry of Foreign Affair’s response on June 15, 2015 to an official document submitted by Attorney Victoria Hsu, CEO of the Taiwan Alliance to Promote Civil Partnership Rights (Wai-Shou-Ling-Er-Zi-Di No. 1055120732).
The Hospice Palliative Care Act states that when the expression of the decision maker's will becomes impossible, the medical agent can assist the patient in signing documents on whether to choose hospice palliative care or to use life support treatment. If the decision maker does not have a medical agent, only a family member with legal status can sign letters of consent. However, Article 10 of the Patient Autonomy Act expanded the power of attorney for medical agents. Originally, medical agents were only able to decide whether to choose hospice palliative care or life support treatment. This decision now includes receiving medical inform, signing letters of consent, and representing the patient in expressing his/her medical intent according to pre-established medical decisions. The Patient Autonomy Act is estimated to take effect three years following its announcement.
Paragraph 2, Article 10 of the Patient Autonomy Act: Except for the heir to the decision maker, the following persons shall not act as medical agents for the decision maker: 1~3
Item 16.33 of the Second State Report on CEDAW is a conclusion reached during the 2012 Consensus Conference on Surrogacy. Item 16.35 of the Second State Report on CEDAW indicates that the government believes that different parties have not reached a consensus on the issue of surrogacy.
Comparing domestic and international costs of artificial reproduction, a single procedure in Taiwan costs between NTD $10,000 and NTD $100,000 (costs vary depending on the difficulty of the technique), and a single procedure abroad costs between NTD $300,000 to NTD $1 million (not including travel expenses).
Taiwan LGBT Family Rights Advocacy and Attorney Yen-Jong Lee filed a lawsuit against the court. Although social workers deemed the family capable of raising the child, the court of first instance overruled the same-sex couple’s adoption request because society has not reached a consensus on same-sex marriage, because the children of these families will become the subject of public opinion. The judge in the second instance court also stated that de facto marriages refer to the union of a man and a woman; thus, laws on stepchild adoption are not applicable to same-sex families.
Taiwan is a signatory of CEDAW. The General Comments No. 24 of CEDAW requires States to eliminate discrimination against women in their access to health-care services throughout the life cycle, particularly in the areas of family planning, pregnancy, and confinement and during the post-natal period.
According to internal documents of the coordination meeting held in Taipei City, the business in question stated that police officers used inappropriate language during the searches, such as “You say you’re a legal business? You know very well what you’re into,” “this place is so filthy, who knows what goes on in here,” “a search is a search, there doesn’t need to be a reason,” and “it looks like you’ve never seen a place go out of business because of police searches!” In this coordination meeting, which was held on January 26, 2016, the police department of this jurisdiction included dozens of photos of “condoms littered all over the floor,” which was used by the police to justify an increase in searches due to safety concerns caused by frequent gay sex in the business in question. For the meeting, meeting notice, official document numbers and internal meeting documents, please refer to the appendices. For the video of the interpellation, please see: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PkrM-03oeCM&feature=youtu.be. The police department of the jurisdiction (Datong District Police Department) states that when conducting a search on February 7th, 2015, a small amount of illegal drugs was found on five gay customers, which is why the business in question was listed as a key location for police searches.
The Persons with HIV/AIDS Rights Advocacy Association of Taiwan comprises numerous HIV/AIDS groups and gay groups, among which Taiwan Tongzhi Hotline Association is also a member. The HIV Infection Control and Patient Rights Protection Act has been renamed and undergone numerous amendments over the past 20 years. In recent years, the HIV Infection Control and Patient Rights Protection Act is more centered on education and the protection of rights. However, despite the protests of private groups that advocate for legal amendments, the Center of Disease Control refused to abolish this law during the latest amendment (2014) on the grounds of public health and disease prevention.
Data was collected from courts of various levels up to March 21, 2016.
Shu-Shou-Ji-Zi-Di No.  0960001319, Ministry of Health and Welfare, Executive Yuan (January 10, 2008): Unsafe sex refers to the direct contact of mucosal tissue or the exchange of bodily fluids without the use of protection during sexual behavior that is medically determined as possible of spreading HIV.
In recent international discussions on HIV/AIDS infections, it has been determined that aside from unprotected sex, viral load is also a critical factor that affects the risk of infection. If a carrier takes regular medication, the viral load can be reduced to a minimum that is undetectable and thus not infectious. Under these circumstances, the occurrence of unprotected sex should not be used to determine the risk of contracting HIV/AIDS. For relevant discourse, please refer to data published by the WHO in 2012 (Link: http://apps.who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/70904/1/WHO_HIV_2012.12_eng.pd).
Although a carrier performing oral sex on a non-carrier is deemed as low-risk behavior, the 2014 Criminal Court Judgment Su-Zi-Di No. 8 of Taiwan Chiayi District Court shows that the judge found the defendant guilty on the grounds of "direct contact with mucosal tissue or the exchange of bodily fluids without the use of protection during sexual behavior is medically determined as possible of spreading HIV."
International Guidelines on HIV/ AIDS and Human Rights, HR/PUB/06/9. The guidelines, a collection of resolutions reached by the United Nations Human Rights Council, were promulgated after being reviewed by the United Nations General Assembly. The guidelines were established based on all current international human rights mechanisms.
Including the UNAIDS’s 2013 policy recommendations.
Initial State Report on ICESCR and ICCPR (Link: http://ppt.cc/sXi7O)
The Ministry of the Interior’s Decision on the discrimination complaint filed by the TransAsia Sisters Association, Taiwan (TASAT) in 2011 (Link: http://ppt.cc/kqTXM)
Transcript of the public hearing held on the legislation of the Anti-Discrimination Act (Link: http://ppt.cc/44cZi)
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (Link: http://ppt.cc/atBk8)
The Ministry of Justice invited experts, NGO representatives and government officials to establish the “Research and Implementation Group on Gradual Abolishment of Death Penalty” in 2010. The first two key goals were, as explained: “For effective policy on gradual abolition, and to reach the end goal of complete abolition, the Ministry of Justice plans to establish the “Research and Implementation Group on Gradual Abolishment of Death Penalty” as a permanent. “The two covenants and the Act to Implement the ICCPR and ICESCR have been passed by the Legislative Yuan and the covenants have been ratified by the President. Abolishing the death penalty is at the core of protecting human rights. To make strides towards it, our policies must actively promote abolition, the permanent research group must be established, there must be mechanisms to actively promote abolition, we must encourage other ministries to implement supporting measures, we must receive the recognition of the public and victims groups, achieve our end goals, follow the international trend of abolition and start implementing a human rights safeguard.” These are the primary intentions of the Research and Implementation Group and the reasons why the members of civil society wish to participate in it.（http://www.taedp.org.tw/story/2432）
The 4 people are Wang Jun-chin, Dai Wen-ching, Wang Hsiu-fang and Liu Yan-kuo.
Example: Chen Yu-an case, Taiwan Supreme Court 2013, Verdict No. 446; Lin Yu-ru case, Taiwan Supreme Court 2013, Verdict No. 2392
Example: Lin Ji-hsiong case, Taiwan Supreme Court 2014, Verdict No. 807 and the latest Li Hung-ji case, Taiwan Supreme Court 2016, Verdict No. 480
For example, Lin Yu-ru, Chen Yu-an and Peng Jian-yuan.
The case happened on the evening of July 3rd, 2013. The director of Research Center of Sports Medicine and Health diagnosed that Hung’s death was caused by multiple organ failure due to athletic heat stroke and hyponatremia brain disease. Hence, Taiwan High Court determined that, the cause of death was “athletic heat stroke due to over-training in humid and heated circumstance, which led to multiple complications,” “highly correlated with BMI of the victim, the amount of training, the resting time, and the circumstances of the confinement cell” and “heat stroke which happened on June 28th, 2013, caused by the heat damage accumulated during the training in confinement cell, ultimately leading to death.”
Mr. Chien Chih-lung just enrolled in the army and joined the processional training in the gendarmerie school. Although he had expressed physical discomfort which was confirmed by medical professionals, because of the limitation of the freedom of person in the military, his unit still put him in solitary confinement and turned down his request to seek medical assistance until his health irreversibly deteriorated. 
“Sexual harassment on April 28th”,2014/05/12, Storm Media, retrieved from http://www.storm.mg/article/31007; “The 7 hours of terror in the violent dispersal at the Executive Yuan, 2014/03/25, Apple Daily, retrieved from http://www.appledaily.com.tw/realtimenews/article/new/20140325/366506/.
“The barricades and gabions are finally removed after 2 years of the student movement,” 2016/03/16, United Daily, retrieved from https://video.udn.com/news/457823.
National Immigration Agency, Ministry of the Interior, 2011-2014 Republic of China (Taiwan) Trafficking in Persons Reports (http://www.immigration.gov.tw/lp.asp?ctNode=32578&CtUnit=16539&BaseDSD=7&mp=1)
According to Resolution No. 5 in 2015 of the Prosecutor Evaluation Committee, the brief facts of the case were: a judge surnamed Chen actively sent an inquiry to the prosecutor whether he intended to prolong  the detention; moreover, before the prosecutor submitted the application, judge Chen had begun the interrogation of prolonging. Although such actions are against the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to the Committee they are very common in practice.
According to request of evaluation of a Taiwan High Court Judge surnamed Wang submitted by the Judicial Reform Foundation on December 16th, 2015, Wang, had mistaken that the defendant had a circular order and prolonged his detention. In the second hearing regarding the detention prolongation, the defendant reminded the judges of the mistake. However, the judges still made the decision to prolong the detention due to the circular order (which doesn’t exist) as well as the severity of the crime. The defendant made an interlocutory appeal to the Supreme Court, but the Supreme Court only noted the mistake and dismissed the appeal after the High Court corrected it.
The Control Yuan’s report on Lin’s case can be downloaded at http://ppt.cc/78XKH
Ministry of Justice’s statistics on correctional measures: http://ppt.cc/abO5q; 2016 budget of Taiwan After-care Association: http://ppt.cc/DXQ9S; Final report of Ministry of Justice’s study on the establishment of a supportive services system for families of the rehabilitated: http://ppt.cc/eM4e2
Criteria for evaluation of inmate violations exist in prisons, but are currently categorized as internal administrative rules, which are not mandatorily published and hence not available on the Internet. Information on the realities in the ward for rule breakers can be found at PNN’s PTS News Network commentary: A Dark Forest within the Dark Forest: Realities in Taipei Prison’s Ward for Rule Breakers (http://ppt.cc/ASRZ; Article in Chinese.)
See commentary by Ful-Dien Li at Storm Media: Can the Death Remonstration Wake the Ministry of Justice from Stupor? (http://ppt.cc/Ki3dV; Article in Chinese.)
Wang was incarcerated on two occasions, from January to April 2015 and from December 2015 to February 2016. Before his first incarceration, Wang had written to the Ministry of Justice to request his boyfriend be allowed to visit as Wang’s same sex partner. One week before his release, Taipei Detention Center’s officer informed him that the Ministry had sent an official letter stating that with proof of cohabitation, applications for visits and communications would be permitted, though Wang did not file an application since he was soon to be released. Before his second incarceration, Wang and his boyfriend had acquired a proof of cohabitation, which his boyfriend sent to the prison along with the Ministry’s official letter immediately after Wang’s admission to prison. However, it turned out that Taipei Prison would only permit applications for visits from a partner registered to the same household as the inmate. As a result, Wang was still not able to see his boyfriend during his incarceration. After his release, Wang shared his experience on the Internet and was contacted by a lesbian woman, who was not able to see her girlfriend even after she had registered both of them to the same household because her girlfriend was serving at Kaohsiung Prison, which only permits applications for visits from a partner registered to the same household as the inmate before the inmate’s admission.
See Yen’s Parole was Manipulation of Justice by Jienjung Chien, Apple Daily (http://ppt.cc/Bmuiz; article in Chinese).
More information can be found at PNN’s PTS News Network commentary: An Inmate in Silence? Comments on the Verdict of Chiu’s Memoir (http://ppt.cc/bu3S; Article in Chinese)
Control Yuan’s correction on Taoyuan Reform School regarding the Mai incident: http://ppt.cc/o2XFN
Agenda Related Document of the 2nd sitting of Ninth Legislative Yuan’s 1st session, dated 11 December 2015 http://ppt.cc/uqkwy
Articles 9, 13 and 14 of ICCPR http://ppt.cc/atBk8
Paragraph 40 of UN’s CCPR General Comment No. 32
Paragraph 333 of the ICCPR State report.
Papalia, Diane, Sally Olds, and Ruth Feldman. 2009. P. 395 in their Human Development. New York: McGraw-Hill.
Paragraph 55, Convention on the Rights of the Child General Comment No. 14: “Children are not a homogeneous group and therefore diversity must be taken into account when assessing their best interests. The identity of the child includes characteristics such as sex, sexual orientation, national origin, religion and beliefs, cultural identity, personality. Although children and young people share basic universal needs, the expression of those needs depends on a wide range of personal, physical, social and cultural aspects, including their evolving capacities. The right of the child to preserve his or her identity is guaranteed by the Convention (art. 8) and must be respected and taken into consideration in the assessment of the child's best interests.”
Article 49 of the Protection of Children and Youths Welfare and Rights Act is the mandate for Taiwan’s current rating regulations, such as the Motion Picture Act, Regulations on Rating and Management of Gaming Software, Regulations on Rating and Management of Publications and Video Tape Recordings, and Internet content rating mechanism established by the government-commissioned content security institutions.
2015/10/23 “Serious call for the National Police Agency to retain accomplice of literary persecution” announcement http://ppt.cc/Ls69c
《International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights The Initial State Report》, ¶267
《International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights The Initial State Report》, ¶¶269-270
《Response to the Two covenants The Initial State Report Concluding Observations and Recommendations  》, Articles 259-260；《International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights The periodic state reports》, Articles 297-299
《Review of the Initial Reports of the Government of Taiwan on the Implementation of the International Human Rights Covenants Concluding Observations and Recommendations Adopted by the International Group of Independent Experts》, ¶75
For example, articles 42、64、67、68、71、72、73、74、85、86、90、91 of the Law for Maintaining Social order, articles 135、136、140、149、152、153、160、246、306 of the Criminal Law, articles 6、27、28 of the Police Power Exercise Act, article 36 of the Administrative Enforcement Act, Article 8 of the Principles of Accidental and Emergency Assembly and Parade
Articles 24、25 of 1050219Assembly and Parade Act Draft Amendment, the Executive Yuan edition
Article 9 of 1050219 Assembly and Parade Act Draft Amendment, the Executive Yuan edition
Taipei City Police Department Official Letter No. 10432249200
On the parts disagreed by Justice Cheng-Shan Lee in the Judicial Yuan Grand Justice Interpretation No. 718 mentioned that ”Article 6 (1.6) of Police Power Exercise Act rules that: “the police may verify the identity of the following people in public places or public-accessible places：……6. people who pass through designated public places, road sections, and check points.” Item 2 on the same Article rules that：”The designation stipulated in the sub-paragraph 6 of the preceding Paragraph shall be made only when considered necessary to prevent crimes or deal with events that may affect major public safety or social order. /the designation shall be determined by supervisors in charge. ”Also adapted from regulations on Article 1 (2) of the Assembly and Parade Act：”The matters with no applicable provisions in this Act shall be governed by other relevant laws. ”The police is able to expand controlled space outside of the “ prohibited zone” in the name of “identity check, ”strangling the lifeline of freedom of assembly.”
Refer to Assembly is irrational? Parade is guilty! By Jen-Hao Liu – the shaping of history and law enforcement of assembly and parade control, p. 160.
Use the judgments query system of Judicial Yuan, choose “criminal” in Category of Judgment, set up the Date of Judgment as “from January 1 to December 31, 2014,”in Full Text Search enter the phrase “assembly + parade + protest + appeal, ”the results and opinions of judgment on appealing and protesting cases related to the first instance from every district court in Taiwan.
Taiwan Democracy, 2014, “Executive Yuan expel: All media have been pushed outside, freedom of the press is dead: press driven out by police” https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BqQsOmxOQGY, March 23, 2014
Indiemedia, May 1, 2014, Indiemedia’s announcement of “428 Chung-shiao West Road pedestrian bridge incident, ” URL：http://www.indiemedia.tw/posts/1882
United Daily News (UDN), July 28, 2015, Important News, Petition to protest the curriculum guidelines, Taipei City Police Department：3 journalists illegally entered Ministry of Education
Liberty Times, November 9, 2015, Politics, Citizen reporter under arrest accused of being illegally restricted due to live broadcasting of protest at Taipei Songshan Airport
On Taipei District Court 2014 Summary No. 107 Judgment, the police could not perform particular tasks due to the barricade of riot control equipment.
Newtalk, the police shouted out “peace and rational” while dragging protesting cashiers, URL：http://newtalk.tw/news/view/2014-11-12/53522
Liberty Times, December 31, 2014, Society, Taipei City protest site will establish ”press zone,” reporters criticized this to be invasion of freedom of the press
Liberty Times, June 5, 2014, Politics, Executive Yuan expel incident, the police refused to provide footages to the supervisors, and the supervisors talked smack and said: What are you afraid of?
Stormmedia, 428expel sexual harassment, the police intentionally used water cannons to wash out female student’s pants, URL：http://www.storm.mg/article/31007
Liberty Times, October 1, 2015, Society, 723 Occupying the head of Ministry of Education’s office, anti-curriculum students questioned the police leaking photos
Liberty Times, December 5, 2014, Politics, The truth of 324 not yet clear, THE NGOs appealing the academic circle not to hire Yi-Hua Chiang
China Times, May 6, 2015, Society, 323 occupying the Executive Yuan, 39 more people being prosecuted.
For example, in a case of child abuse in Chu-Tung, the family had already been an enlisted case by social workers for a long period of time. When social workers visited the family of this brother-and-sister, they felt that this pair of brother-and-sister needed assistance. Yet, because there seemed no immediate danger, they did not initiate an intervention. The abuse of these two children and the death of one of them happened between two visits by social workers. Social workers did not have the power to intervene in advance. 
Take the case of Mr. Yeh in Miaoli neglecting care of children as example. When making a family visit, the homeroom teacher discovered that the child was seriously neglected. The spouse originally taking care of the child had passed away. The widowed single parent who already did not have the ability to fulfill a parent’s duties, had to take responsibility for caring for children. This resulted in unstable career situations and addiction to alcohol, that led the parent to ignore his child. The parent asked his child to take care of his own demands, frequently not giving his child money but asking him to purchase alcohol and cigarettes. If his child did not bring these back, he would scorn, beat or even lock his child outside of the door. After getting drunk, the parent would wake his child up in the middle of the night to scorn him. The parent did not provide regular meals for his child, did not care for his child’s hygiene. The child had a filthy genital area and body odor, which led to rejected by classmates, etc. The child’s school not only let the child take school provided nutritional lunch back home for dinner, but the principal also linked resources for the child to have breakfast at 7-11. The child’s homeroom teacher enabled the child to take showers between classes every other day. The school also informed the Social Affairs Department, but the Social Affairs Department considered the child as being in no immediate danger. So, they did not actively intervene, and only provided economic support and assigned a home service assistant to help clean his home once a week. The parent often prevented his child from going to school because of his own demands, making excuses such as his child being sick. The parent even resorted to trickery by letting his child go to school to check-in to avoid attendance rules and regulations, but county social workers and judicial agencies all considered this child “without immediate danger.” They consequently did not this case as physical and mental abuse, and did not provide active protection.
Details refer to Kaohsiung High Administrative Court Litigation No. 350 Judicial decision in 2002, Kaohsiung High Administrative Court Litigation No. 64 Judicial decision in 2007, Taichung High Administrative Court Litigation No. 195 Judicial decision in 2009, Taipei High Administrative Court Litigation No. 2182 Judicial decision in 2008, Taipei High Administrative Court Litigation No. 1965 Judicial decision in 2010, the Supreme Court Tai Appeal No. 773 Judicial decision in 2010.
For example, there was a case of neglect and abuse of a child whose family name is Chen in Hsinchu County (this case did not appear on the news because there was no severe harm). The mother of the child has borderline personality disorder and often did not take care of her son. After receiving reports, the government resettled the child with a guardian, whose family name is Hsu. The guardian was influenced by the mother of the child and therefore believed that the County government grabbed her son. The guardian consequently ignored the records and actual observations that County social workers and agencies presented about the mother’s neglect and inability to perform parental duties. On the contrary, the guardian felt that social workers demanded too much of the mother. During case processing, the Social Affairs Department invited the guardian to attend case study seminars, but the guardian refused on the basis of judicial neutrality and told the mother that he would do her justice. Finally, the Court accepted the guardian’s evaluation and rejected the extended resettlement request made by the Social Affairs Department. The mother immediately moved her household registration from Hsinchu County afterwards to get rid of the social workers who cared about her son, and handed her son to a 24-hour babysitter in another county. This was in total contradiction from what she had told the guardian. The mother previously indicated to the guardian that, “I want to be with my child every day” and “I cannot live one day without my child.” Instead, the mother acted in ways consistent with the expectations from the county case study seminar.
For the entire year, among calls received by the help hotlines for homosexual youth, about 30~40% （especially lesbian couples）mentioned that one of the parties was under high-power control, grounded, and restricted from making friends by their family.
